1. We act with urgency, but we don't compromise safety or quality.

2. We pursue options in parallel: allows us to uncover more possibilities
greater impact gives us the opportunity to choose differently

3. We accept risk.
risk-taker. I am not afraid to take on a challenge, or try something new. 
I think it is great to get out of your comfort zone every once in a while. Otherwise, you stop yourself from growing and learning new things. 

4. We obsess over learning
Both failure and success push us forward

5. We pivot fearlessly in the face of new data.
use data to tell us when and where we can have the most impact
This mindset validates that any decision we make can be changed based on new information. 
We have no egos. We are regularly wrong, but we always decide for what is best Moderna long-term.

6. We question convention
because proven models don't always fuel the future.
Moderna is a company of problem solvers always in search of a better solution. 

7.We push past possible.
In order to make moonshots, we set goals that go beyond what we believe is possible. We know greatness lives outside of comfort zones

8. We behave like owners.
The solutions we’re building go beyond any job description.
No matter your role, we are all responsible to this community and organization. It’s all hands on deck to win for the patient. Moderna’s core challenges require us to leave our egos at the door, using this mindset to get to the best and most expedient solution. 

9. We act with dynamic range:
driving strategy and execution at the same time and at every step.
This mindset encourages us to be both doers and strategists.

10. We prioritize the platform over any single product: 
Every decision we make is in service of delivering on the promise of mRNA science for patients. 
forces us to think systemically and grow intentionally. 


11. We digitize everywhere possible: digitization, automation and AI.

Customer Focus

Within the team, we have Oncall rotations to handle customer's ticket, and try to handle system exceptions.
Top priority. 


Build trust
always provide best work. 

Help the parter team and contribute. 
commit something, don't miss the deadline. 
Find and report a hidden bug for them, the parter team knew this issue for a long time, but it was 
hard to reproduce. I found the bug addicently. 


Always be Growing
Try new things. Be a balanced and accurate evaluator of your actions.
Use new technology to develop: slow. 
Trade off. 

Be Bold
Have an opinion and be visionary. Constantly reimagine how to drive the future forward. We innovate, look around corners, and knock down blockers. We explore unfamiliar territory.

Doc tree, the root is the doc. page, shapes. 
Design patterns.
Refactor the code may take some time. 


Be Curious
Always ask why. Curiosity pushes each of us to dive deep, innovate, improve, and discover. Never stop learning.

For example:
there is a bug, don't just make a patch. Need to understand why. 
A function failed with invalid input string. Say it is null. So I can do a null check. 
Or I need to ask myself, why the input is null. Maybe the error is from where the input is generated. 

Others asked me to do something, ask is it reasonable. 
don't do the work without thinking. 

