1. Conflict

Story
My manager asked me to work together with one co-worker. However, I had a conflict with him over the choice of design for a project.
We both had strong opinions and valid arguments, but we could not agree on which one was better. 
So I decided to have a meeting with him and explain why I preferred my option, but also listen to his reasoning.  (Communicate directly and respectfully with the co-worker)
First we make sure we have same assumption/goal/requirement, then to see in which part we agree with each other, and also find out the difference of our approach. 
Then we both understood each other's suggestions and presented our ideas to the rest of the team, which allowed everyone to voice their opinions. 
We were able to come to a mutual decision as a group. 

Identify the source and impact of the conflict
Listen to their perspective and acknowledge their feelings
Express your own needs and expectations
Seek a mutually beneficial solution or compromise
Involve your manager or a third party if needed
Follow up and monitor the progress

2. Planning for the deadline

There are many possible reasons why a software engineer might fail to meet a project deadline, such as 
unclear requirements, 
unrealistic expectations, 
team dependencies, 
scope creep, 
or unforeseen challenges. 

Storry: 
One example of such a situation is when an new graduate was asked to finish a complex project in two weeks, 
and that required more time and skills than he had. He realized he couldn’t finish the project on time and ask for help.

Action:
The problem is there is no enough communication. We have daily stand up meeting, but he didn't ask for help if he is blocked. 

So I discussed with him for several topics.
1. Can we change the scope? Doing less while delivering the same results? 
We decided to make the functionality to work first, then if we have time we can optimize. 
2. Do we need more people, maybe someone with better context on that feature that could be more productive.
I spend several hour to help him design the work flow. 

After these actions, we finished the project on time. 

Also after this, we did a postmortem on this. 
Analyze why are late. 
Did we provide a bad estimate? Why?
Did we find some part of the code base that was harder to change?
Did we introduce breaking changes/ introduced a bug that were not expected?





