Requirement
1. 1 on 1 chat, group based
2. scale: daily active users
1M concurrent users, each user connection needs 10K of memory.  -> 10G of memory.
3. important features: text message, attach file, chat history
1 on 1 chat, group chat, online presence, push notification



Workflow
sender(web/mobile app)  ->  chat service   -> receiver

1. sender:
connect the chats service using http protocols.
  sends the message to chat service, informing the service to send the message to the receiver. 
  reduce the number of TCP handshakes.

2. chat service: store message and send message
  polling: client periodically asks the server if there are message available. 
	depending on polling frequence, polling could be costly. 
  long polling: a client holds the connection open until there are actually new messages available or timeout.
	once the client receives new messages, it immediately sends another request to the server, restart the process.
	drawbacks: (1). sender and receiver may not connect to the same chat server.
		(2). a server has no good way to tell if a client is disconnected.
		(3). inefficient. if a user doesn't chat much, long pulling makes periodic connections after timeout.
  websocket: sending asynchronous updates from server to client.
	bi-directional and persistent.
	starts as http connection and could be upgraded via handshake to a web socket connection.

			HTTP				WebSockets
Technology used		Full duplex			Half duplex
Data type handled	Static and stagnant data	Real time and continuously updated data
Latency overheads	High				Low
Operational overheads	High as you need to generate 	Relatively low as one request can generate
			fresh request for each 		multiple responses as long as a connection is open
			unique/next response	 
Speed			Slow as it takes time to 	Fast as connection remains open as long as
			establish a new connection 	it’s not terminated by one party
			for every request	 
Ability to handle 	Frequent requests will reduce 	Frequent requests will have no impact on the connection they can be 
frequent request	the performance of the connection	handled easily

3. Other service: sign up, login, user profile, use http.

Stateless service: 
user ->(http)  load balancer -> service discovery, authentication service, group management, user profile
stateful: user ->(websocket) -> chat service. (each client maintains a persistent connection to the chat server)
push notification 


DB:
1. relational batabase. generic data: user profile, setting, user friends list
2. key-value store: chat history data: large amount data, recent chats are accessed frequentl(users don't ususlly look up for old chats). random access data(search), jump to specific message. read: write: 1:1
	allow easy horizontal scaling, low latency to access data, 

message schema
id, from, to, content, time, group id


service discovery: recommend the best chat service for a client based on the criteria like geographical location, server capacity. 
	apache zookeeper. 
1. login
2. load balancer: sends login request to API services.
3. service discovery(zookeeper) finds the best chat server for user A. 
4. user connects to chat server through websocket.

1 on 1 chat flow:
1. user a sends a chat message to chat server 1.
2. chat server 1 obtains a message id from ID generator.
3. chat server 1 sends the message to the message sync queue.
4.message is stored in a key value store
5. if user B is online, the message is forwarded to chat server 2 where user B is connected.
   if user B is offline, a push notification is sent from push notification servers.
6. chat server 2 forwards the message to User B. There is a persistent web socket connection between user B and chat server 2.

Message synchronization across multiple devices: a connection between the laptop and chat server.
  each device maintains a variable called max_message_id. 
	if recipient id is equal to the currently logged in user id
	message id in the key value store is larger than max message id.

Small group chat flow:
	each user has a message sync queue, as an inbox for the recipient.
	User A sends a message in a group chat, it is copied to each group memorys's message sync queue.
	when the group number is small, storing a copy in each recipients inbox is not expensive.

Online presence:
presence servers: 
User login: after a websocket connection is built between the client and the realtime server, save online status and last active at timestamp in the KV store.
user log out.: save offline in the KV store.
user disconnection: heartbeat mechanism: online client sends a heartbeat event to presence servers. If presence servers receive 
a heartbeat event within certain time, the user is online. 

